improve PR reviews (#5616)
theia-ide/theia: .github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md

<!--
Thank you for your Pull Request. Please provide a description and review
the requirements below.

Contributors guide: https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
-->

#### What it does
<!-- Include relevant issues and describe how they are addressed. -->

#### How to test

> <!-- Explain how a reviewer can reproduce a bug, test new functionality or verify perf improvements.  -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- Explain how a reviewer can reproduce a bug, test new functionality or verify performance improvements.  -->
```

#### Review checklist

> - [ ] as an author, I have thoroughly tested my changes and carefully reviewed following [the review guidelines](https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/blob/master/doc/pull-requests.md#requesting-a-review)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [ ] as an author, I have thoroughly tested my changes and carefully followed [the review guidelines](https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/blob/master/doc/pull-requests.md#requesting-a-review)
```

<!--
Thank you for your Pull Request. Please provide a description and review
the requirements below.

Contributors guide: https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
-->

#### What it does
<!-- Include relevant issues and describe how they are addressed. -->

#### How to test
<!-- Explain how a reviewer can reproduce a bug, test new functionality or verify perf improvements.  -->

> #### Review Checklist

Reviewer 2: I would go with `Review checklist` as we do not use a capital for the other titles either.

[minor]: perhaps you could start each bullet point with a capital, and finish the sentence with a period. But it is up to you.

<!-- For completed items, change [ ] to [x].  -->
<!-- For inapplicable items, cross out with `[ ] foo` to `[x] ~~foo~~`.  -->

> - [ ] as an author I have carefully reviewed and thoroughly tested my changes.

Reviewer 2: as an author, I have

- [ ] commits are signed-off: https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#sign-your-work
- [ ] commit history is rebased on master and contains only meaningful commits and changes (less are usually better)
  - for example use `git pull -r` or `git fetch && git rebase` to pick up changes from the master
- [ ] [changelog](https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) is updated
- [ ] breaking changes are justified and recorded in the changelog

> - [ ] each new file has a proper copyright with the current year and the name of contributing entity (individual or company)

Reviewer 2: each new file has proper

> - [ ] new dependendencies are justified and [verified](https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/wiki/Registering-CQs#wip---new-ecd-theia-intellectual-property-clearance-approach-experimental)

Reviewer 2: dependencies

- [ ] copied code is justified and [approved via a CQ](https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/wiki/Registering-CQs#case-3rd-party-project-code-copiedforked-from-another-project-into-eclipse-theia-maintained-by-us)

> - [ ] new code is aligned with [project organization](https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/wiki/Code-Organization) and [coding conventions](https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/wiki/Coding-Guidelines)

Reviewer 2: the new code is aligned

> - [ ] each review approve is provided with a comment regarding whether functionallity is tested, design or code are aligned with project organization and conventions

Reviewer 2: the functionality (note the typo not just the missing `the`)

>   - an approve without comment should be dismissed

Reviewer 2: the approve without a comment

<!--
Thank you for your Pull Request. Please provide a description and review
the requirements below.

Contributors guide: https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
-->

#### What it does
<!-- Include relevant issues and describe how they are addressed. -->

#### How to test
<!-- Explain how a reviewer can reproduce a bug, test new functionality or verify perf improvements.  -->

#### Review checklist
<!-- For completed items, change [ ] to [x].  -->
<!-- For inapplicable items, mark them as completed as well.  -->

- [ ] as an author, I have carefully reviewed and thoroughly tested my changes

> - [ ] each approve has supporting comments regarding some points below

Reviewer 3: Can we remove them and have a general section on how to do code reviews? Or is there a template for code reviews as well?

> - [ ] each approve has supporting comments regarding some points below

Author: not implemented yet: https://github.community/t5/How-to-use-Git-and-GitHub/Pull-Request-Review-Template/td-p/6857/page/2

I will split.

<!--
Thank you for your Pull Request. Please provide a description above and review
the requirements below.

Bug fixes and new features should include tests and possibly benchmarks.

Contributors guide: https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md
-->

#### What it does
<!-- Include relevant issues and describe how they are addressed -->

#### How to test
<!-- Describe how a reviewer can verify changes within Theia repo -->

#### Review Checklist
<!-- For completed items, change [ ] to [x].  -->
<!-- For inapplicable items, cross out with `[ ] foo` to `[x] ~~foo~~`.  -->

> 

Reviewer 3: I would put this first. It might seem obvious but I feel that having to check this explicitly might motivate to go through it once more or extra carefully.

- [ ] commits are signed-off: https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md#sign-your-work

> - [ ] commit history is cleaned up of merge and fix up commits

Reviewer 3: commit history is rebased on master and contains only meaningful commits and changes (less are usually better)

>   - use `git pull -r` to pick up changes from the master

Reviewer 4: So in other words, rebase your PR on the latest state of master, right? I do that graphically in Eclipse, t.b.h.

> - [ ] tests/benchmarks are defined for functionallity/perf optimizations and verified by a reviewer, not an author

Reviewer 4: Does this mean we have to have unit tests? If yes, what coverage? What about things that are easier to test manually (typos, adding a UI element like menu item)?

Reviewer 3: Can we leave this out?

Author: I don't want to make the process overly strict and did not mean require unit tests for each PR.

I meant that each PR should at least explain how to reproduce a bug, test new functionality, verify perf improvements. If someone wants to add unit or UI tests it is always welcomed, but not mandatory.

I will remove it and add `A contributor should explain how to reproduce a bug, test new functionality or verify perf improvements.` as a comment under `How to test` section.

- [ ] [changelog](https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) is updated
- [ ] breaking changes are justified and recorded in the changelog

> - [ ] each new file has a proper copyright with the current year and an author as an entity

Reviewer 3: each new file has a proper copyright with the current year and the name of contributing entity (individual or company)

- [ ] new dependendencies are justified and [verified](https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/wiki/Registering-CQs#wip---new-ecd-theia-intellectual-property-clearance-approach-experimental)

> - [ ] copied code are justified and [approved via a CQ](https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/wiki/Registering-CQs#case-3rd-party-project-code-copiedforked-from-another-project-into-eclipse-theia-maintained-by-us)

Reviewer 3: copied code *is`

- [ ] new code is aligned with [project organization](https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/wiki/Code-Organization) and [coding conventions](https://github.com/theia-ide/theia/wiki/Coding-Guidelines)

> - [ ] each review approve is provided with a comment regarding whether functionallity is tested, design or code are aligned with project organization and conventions

Reviewer 4: The last point in the check list ("approve comment") seem to imply that the reviewer built and tested the code. If this is required, I would make it an explicit item in the check list. One could still review the code, but not approve.

Would it make sense to require instructions on how to test the changed behaviour? I figure it's not always obvious how to do that: we had some such cases implementing VS Code API.

Author: > The last point in the check list ("approve comment") seem to imply that the reviewer built and tested the code. If this is required, I would make it an explicit item in the check list. One could still review the code, but not approve.

sounds good 

> Would it make sense to require instructions on how to test the changed behaviour? I figure it's not always obvious how to do that: we had some such cases implementing VS Code API.

A contributor should think about it and fill in `How to test` section, no? How he can know otherwise that he is doing the right thing.

Author: for VS Code API one should create a vscode extension and test it against VS Code and Theia, or write a unit test against VS Code APIs. Do you mean that we should have such recommendations?
